Migration from 2.x to 3.x
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you are upgrading an existing 2.0 installation, there are a few
manual steps. From the project directory in unactivated mode:

-  rm -r env
-  rm -r volttron/platform/control
-  python bootstrap.py

An overview of changes can be found at: `VOLTTRON Primer
Overview <http://transactionalnetwork.pnnl.gov/documents/2015_techmeeting/14.%20VOLTTRON_3.0_Primer%20(Haack%20and%20Carpenter).pdf>`__

Drivers
=======

Drivers are no longer tied to smap. Please see the
`drivers <VOLTTRON-Drivers>`__ page.

sMAP Driver INI File
--------------------

Previously, all driver setup was done in an smap.ini file with sections
for each device. Now, this setup is done in two parts: the Master Driver
Agent and individual drivers. The sections from the smap ini are now
contained in their own files. These files are tied together by the
``master-driver.config``:

::

    {
        "agentid": "master_driver",
        "driver_config_list": [
        "/home/volttron/git/config/bacnet-device1.config",
        "/home/volttron/git/config/bacnet-device2.config"
        ]
    }

The following portion of the file is no longer needed for the driver but
could be used to setup an `sMAP Historian <sMAP-Historian>`__

::

    [report 0]
    ReportDeliveryLocation = http://\<IP\>/backend/add/\<KEY\>

    [/datalogger]
    type = volttron.drivers.data_logger.DataLogger
    interval = 1

Setting up paths for the collection and devices are now handled in the
driver config file:

::

    [/]
    type = Collection
    Metadata/SourceName = MySource
    uuid = <UUID>

    [/Campus]
    type = Collection
    Metadata/Location/Campus = My Campus

    [/Campus/Building]
    type = Collection
    Metadata/Location/Building = Building

    [/Campus/Building/device]
    type = volttron.drivers.bacnet.BACnet
    target_address = IP
    self_address = IP:PORT
    interval = 60
    Metadata/Instrument/Manufacturer = Manufacturer
    Metadata/Instrument/ModelName = Model Name
    register_config = /home/volttron/git/volttron/config/my-bacnet-config.csv

Becomes ``bacnet-device1.config``:

::

    {
        "driver_config": {
            "device_address": "13200:56"
        }, 
        "campus": "Campus", 
        "building": "Building", 
        "unit": "Device", 
        "driver_type": "bacnet", 
        "registry_config": "/home/volttron/git/volttron/config/my-bacnet-config.csv", 
        "interval": 60, 
        "timezone": "US/Pacific"
    }

Register Files (CSV)
--------------------

These files are almost unchanged from v2.0. The sole change is the
renaming of "PNNL Point Name" to "Volttron Point Name" This was a legacy
label from the initial version of the platform and has now been updated.

``Point Name,PNNL Point Name,Units,Unit Details,BACnet Object Type,Property,Writable,Index,Notes``

Becomes:

``Point Name,Volttron Point Name,Units,Unit Details,BACnet Object Type,Property,Writable,Index,Notes``

The rest of the file remains the same.

Historian
=========

Please look through the page [[Historian\|VOLTTRON-Historians]] to see
the support storage solutions. `sMAP <sMAP-Historian>`__ can still be
used but is now optional.

ActuatorAgent
=============

The Actuator can now be accessed via RPC which greatly simplifies the
code needed to work with devices. The following shows how the old
SchedulerExample agent was
`upgraded <https://github.com/VOLTTRON/volttron/commit/53b1b40d429ca78789838e365c399a2eb24635de>`__.
The use\_rpc method contains examples for replacing all the code for the
pubsub interaction.

Agents
======

