.. _4.1_to_5.0:
Migration from 4.1 to 5.0
=========================

5.0 includes numerous changes (Tagging Service, Message Bus performance increase, Multi-platform pub/sub, etc.), but
the majority of these should be invisible to most users.

Key issues to note are:


Operations Agents
-----------------

Several agents have been moved from "services/core" to "services/ops" to highlight their use in monitoring a
deployment. They are not necessary when developing against a single instance, but are essential for VOLTTRON(tm) in a
deployed environment.

Agents affected:

- services/ops/AgentWatcher
- services/ops/AlertAgent,0.4
- services/ops/AlertMonitor
- services/ops/Alerter
- services/ops/EmailerAgent
- services/ops/FailoverAgent
- services/ops/FileWatchPublisher
- services/ops/LogStatisticsAgent
- services/ops/MessageDebuggerAgent
- services/ops/SysMonAgent
- services/ops/ThresholdDetectionAgent


Rebuild Agents
--------------

Rebuilding agents is :underline:`required` when upgrading to a new VOLTTRON(tm) version to ensure that agents are
operating with the latest code. Errors will occur if agents built in a previous version attempt to run with the
latest version of the platform.

ForwardHistorian
----------------
The ForwardHistorian configuration has been changed.
Please see: https://github.com/VOLTTRON/volttron/blob/develop/services/core/ForwardHistorian/README.rst for the
new options.

.. note:: NOTE If you have no entry for service_topic_list in your configuration, the new default will cause
ALL data to be forwarded. Please update your configuration if you are forwarding a subset of data.


VOLTTRON Central Management UI
------------------------------

The url for VOLTTRON Central Management is now http://IP:port/vc/index.html

Agent Versions
--------------

To get the versions of agents in the VOLTTRON project, run "python scripts/get_versions.py".


========================== ====== =======
Agent Name                 4.1    5.0
========================== ====== =======
CAgent                     1.0    1.0
CSVHistorian               N/A    1.0.1
ConfigActuation            0.1    0.1
DataPublisher              3.0.1  3.0.1
DataPuller                 N/A    3.5
ExampleDrivenControlAgent  0.1    0.1
ExampleSubscriber          3.0    3.0
ListenerAgent              3.2    3.2
ProcessAgent               0.1    0.1
SchedulerExample           0.1    0.1
SimpleForwarder            3.0    3.0
SimpleWebAgent             0.1    0.1
WeatherForecastCSV_UW
WebRPC
WebSocketAgent             0.0.1  0.0.1
PrometheusScrapeAgent      N/A    0.0.1
WeatherAgent
ActuatorAgent              1.0    1.0
BACnetProxy                0.2    0.3
CrateHistorian             1.0.1  1.0.2
DataMover                  0.1    0.1
ExternalData               1.0    1.0
ForwardHistorian           3.7    4.0
MQTTHistorian              0.1    0.2
MasterDriverAgent          3.1.1  3.1.1
MongodbAggregateHistorian  1.0    1.0
MongodbHistorian           2.1    2.1
MongodbTaggingService      N/A    1.0
OpenEISHistorian           3.1    3.1
SEP2Agent                  N/A    1.0
SEP2DriverTestAgent        N/A    1.0
SQLAggregateHistorian      1.0    1.0
SQLHistorian               3.6.1  3.6.1
SQLiteTaggingService       N/A    1.0
VolttronCentral            4.0.3  4.2
VolttronCentralPlatform    4.0    4.5.2
WeatherAgent               3.0    3.0
AgentWatcher               0.1    0.1
AlertAgent                 0.4    0.4
AlertMonitor               0.1    0.1
Alerter                    0.1    0.1
EmailerAgent               1.3    1.3.1
FailoverAgent              0.2    0.2
FileWatchPublisher         3.6    3.6
LogStatisticsAgent         1.0    1.0
MessageDebuggerAgent       N/A    1.0
SysMonAgent                3.6    3.6
ThresholdDetectionAgent    3.7    3.7
========================== ====== =======

